# Stock-Market-Trend-Prediction
An SVM-based approach is proposed for stock market trend prediction. The proposed approach consists of two parts: feature selection and prediction model. In the feature selection part, a correlation-based SVM filter is applied to rank and select a good subset of financial indexes. And the stock indicators are evaluated based on the ranking. In the prediction model part, a so called quasi-linear SVM is applied to predict stock market movement direction in term of historical data series by using the selected subset of financial indexes as the weighted inputs. The quasi-linear SVM is an SVM with a composite quasi-linear kernel function, which approximates a nonlinear separating boundary by multi-local linear classifiers with interpolation. Experimental results on Taiwan stock market datasets demonstrate that the proposed SVM-based stock market trend prediction method produces better generalization performance over the conventional methods in terms of the hit ratio. Moreover, the experimental results also show that the proposed SVM-based stock market trend prediction system can find out a good subset and evaluate stock indicators which provide useful information for investors.

# Stock Market
While today it is possible to purchase almost everything online, there is usually a designated market for every commodity. For instance, people drive to city outskirts and farmlands to purchase Christmas trees, visit the local timber market to buy wood and other necessary material for home furniture and renovations, and go to stores like Walmart for their regular grocery supplies.

Such dedicated markets serve as a platform where numerous buyers and sellers meet, interact and transact. Since the number of market participants is huge, one is assured of a fair price. For example, if there is only one seller of Christmas trees in the entire city, he will have the liberty to charge any price he pleases as the buyers won’t have anywhere else to go. If the number of tree sellers is large in a common marketplace, they will have to compete against each other to attract buyers. The buyers will be spoiled for choice with low- or optimum-pricing making it a fair market with price transparency. Even while shopping online, buyers compare prices offered by different sellers on the same shopping portal or across different portals to get the best deals, forcing the various online sellers to offer the best price.

A stock market is a similar designated market for trading various kinds of securities in a controlled, secure and managed environment. Since the stock market brings together hundreds of thousands of market participants who wish to buy and sell shares, it ensures fair pricing practices and transparency in transactions. While earlier stock markets used to issue and deal in paper-based physical share certificates, the modern day computer-aided stock markets operate electronically.

